.TH  3  2005-06-09 "sfcc" "SFCBroker Client Library"
.SH NAME
CMCIClientFT.setInstance() \- Replace class instance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <cmci.h>
.sp
.BI CMPIStatus *
.BI CMCIClientFT.setInstance (CMCIClient* cl,
.br
.BI				CMPIObjectPath* op,
.br
.BI				CMPIFlags flags,
.br
.BI				char** properties,
.br
.BI				CMPIStatus* rc);
.br
.sp
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Replace a class instance with \fIinst\fP using \fIop\fP as reference. 
The content of the returned class instance structure can be controled
using the \fIflags\fP parameter.
.PP
Arguments are the client object pointer \fIcl\fP, an ObjectPath object 
pointer \fIop\fP that contains namespace and classname components,
\fIflags\fP to affect the returned class instance structure content,
 \fIproperties\fP array, and \fIrc\fP which returns the operation status 
(suppressed when NULL).
.PP
The \fIflags\fP argument is a bit mask that can contain 
the following flag - \fICMPI_FLAG_IncludeQualifiers\fP.
.PP
The \fIproperties\fP array defines what properties should be returned 
for the class.
If this argument is not NULL, only the class properties in the list are 
returned.
If it's NULL all class properties are returned.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
When successful the \fBCMCIClientFT.setInstance()\fP function returns a
CMPIStatus object with a successful operation status code.
When unsuccessful it returns the operation error code and 
corresponding error string.
.SH "ERRORS"
.sp
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Common Manageability Programming Interface (CMPI) - OpenGroup,
.br
CMCIClient(3), CMPIStatus(3), CMPIObjectPath(3), CMPIFlags(3)
