.TH  3  2005-06-09 "sfcc" "SFCBroker Client Library"
.SH NAME
CMPIEnumeration \- CMPIEnumeration class implementation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.SS "Public Attributes"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBvoid * hdl\fP
.br
Opaque pointer to class instance data.
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBCMPIEnumerationFT\fP * \fBft\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to the Args Function Table. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH METHODS
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBCMPIStatus\fP(* \fBrelease\fP )(\fBCMPIEnumeration\fP *en)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe Enumeration object will not be used any further and may be freed by CMPI run time system. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBCMPIEnumeration\fP *(* \fBclone\fP )(\fBCMPIEnumeration\fP *en, \fBCMPIStatus\fP *rc)"
.br
.RI "\fICreate an independent copy of this Enumeration object. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBCMPIData\fP(* \fBgetNext\fP )(\fBCMPIEnumeration\fP *en, \fBCMPIStatus\fP *rc)"
.br
.RI "\fIGet the next element of this Enumeration. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBCMPIBoolean\fP(* \fBhasNext\fP )(\fBCMPIEnumeration\fP *en, \fBCMPIStatus\fP *rc)"
.br
.RI "\fITest for any elements left in this Enumeration. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBCMPIArray\fP *(* \fBtoArray\fP )(\fBCMPIEnumeration\fP *en, \fBCMPIStatus\fP *rc)"
.br
.RI "\fIConvert this Enumeration into an Array. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP 
Native CMPIEnumeration implementation. 

This is the native CMPIEnumeration implementation as used for remote providers. It reflects the well-defined interface of a regular CMPIEnumeration, however, it works independently from the management broker.
.PP
It is part of a native broker implementation that simulates CMPI data types rather than interacting with the entities in a full-grown CIMOM.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Common Manageability Programming Interface (CMPI) - OpenGroup
